# Neo4j and MongoDB
Neo4j and MongoDb are both database management systems. A database management system (DBMS) is a software
made for storing, organizing, accessing, adding, updating, and removing data efficiently, securely, and
resourcefully.

Neo4j is a graph-oriented database management system, which means it stores data in the form of nodes in a graph,
connected by edges represending relationships between them.

MongoDB is a document-oriented database management system, which allows us to store data in the form of
BSON objects, a data structure quite similar to JSON but optimized and extended.

A recording of the session demonstrations is available [here](https://youtu.be/_XT9jIhDSbM).

## Neo4j: Exercise
Neo4j uses Cypher as its query language. In this exercise, you will be writing queries in Cypher
to get a glimpse of how Neo4j works.

1.	Navigate to the [Neo4j Console](https://console.neo4j.org/).
2.	Get rid of the existing sample database either by clicking 'Clear DB' or by
	executing the following query:
	```cypher
	MATCH
		(n)
	DETACH DELETE n
	```
3.	Create a new graph using the following query:
	```cypher
	CREATE 
		(a:Person:Male {name: 'Param'}),
		(b:Person:Male {name: 'Ritesh'}),
		(c:Person:Male {name: 'Mukul'}),
		(d:Person:Male {name: 'Kushan'}),
		(e:Person:Female {name: 'Vani'}),
		(f:Person:Female {name: 'Krati'}),
		(g:Person:Female {name: 'Khushi'}),
		(h:Thing {colour: 'Red', edible: true}),
		(i:Thing {colour: 'Blue', edible: false}),
		(j:Thing {colour: 'Yellow', edible: true}),
	
		(a)-[:Likes]->(b),
		(b)-[:Likes]->(a),
		(d)-[:Likes]->(c),
		(c)-[:Likes]->(e),
		(e)-[:Likes]->(d),
		(e)-[:Likes]->(f),
		(f)-[:Likes]->(e),
		(f)-[:Likes]->(g),
		(g)-[:Likes]->(f),
		(e)-[:Likes]->(g),
		(c)-[:Likes]->(g),
		(g)-[:Likes]->(c),
		(f)-[:Likes]->(c),

		(a)-[:Eats]->(h),
		(a)-[:Eats]->(i),
		(g)-[:Eats]->(j),
		(d)-[:Eats]->(j),
		(b)-[:Eats]->(j)
	```
	Observe the resulting graph. There are persons and things,
	each person having a name, and each thing being identified
	by its colour and whether or not it is edible.
4.	Use the following query to find our which pairs of persons
	like each-other and can be friends:
	```cypher
	MATCH
		(a:Person),
		(b:Person)
	WHERE
		ID(a) < ID(b)
		AND (a)-[:Likes]->(b)-[:Likes]->(a)
	RETURN a.name AS `Friend 1`, b.name AS `Friend 2`
	```
	We are using `ID(a) < ID(b)` only to make sure we don't get symmetric pairs, such as `(x, y)` and `(y, x)`.

The above exercise gives you a good idea of how graph databases
work and why they are useful. It also teaches you some of
Cypher (Neo4j) syntax.

## MongoDB: Exercise
MongoDB uses the MongoDB Query Language (MQL), which shares most
of its syntax with JavaScript. The following exercises will
give you an opportunity to write queries in MQL to work with a
MongoDB database.

1.	Navifate to the [MongoDB Playground](https://mongoplayground.net/). The default collection will be named 'collection'.
2.	Copy-paste the following JavaScript snippet into the 'Configuration':
	```js
	db = {
		people: [
			{
				name: "Shikhar",
				age: 16,
				hungry: false
			},
			{
				name: "Swapnil",
				age: 17,
				hungry: true
			},
			{
				name: "Soumya",
				age: 18,
				hungry: false
			},
			{
				name: "Ankur",
				age: 19,
				hungry: false
			},
			{
				name: "Astha",
				age: 20,
				hungry: true
			},
			{
				name: "Prachur",
				age: 21,
				hungry: true
			}
		]
	};
	```
3.	Execute the following query to find people who
	are older than 17 years of age and are not hungry
	right now:
	```js
	db.people.find({
		age: {
			$gt: 17
		},
		hungry: false
	});
	```
	Examine the output. You will notice each document has an
	`_id` field assigned. This field uniquely identifies each
	document in a collection.
4.	Execute the following query to find people who
	are older than 17 years of age and are not hungry
	right now:
	```js
	db.people.find({
		age: {
			$gt: 17
		},
		hungry: false
	});
	```
	Examine the output. You will notice each document has an
	`_id` field assigned. This field uniquely identifies each
	document in a collection.

The above exercise gives you an idea about using MQL to query a MongoDB database and work with collections and documents.

## Remarks
- The abovementioned database technologies are widely-used and popular.
- When connecting with applications, we don't usually write the queries ourselves but use connector modules.
- Carefully examine the queries being used to properly understand what is happening. 

# Made with â¤ by [Param](http://www.paramsid.com).
