# Machine Learning with Pandas and Scikit-Learn
Machine learning is a technique of data-analysis that allows us to train a computer to learn,
identify patterns, and make decisions without explicit instructions. In this workshop, you learnt
about machine learning and performed a simple linear regression exercise in Python using Pandas
and Scikit-Learn.

A recording of the session demonstrations is available [here](https://youtu.be/FzvM9nYZmf0).

## Exercise
In this exercise, we will teach a model how to find the sum of 2 numbers based on supervision i. e.
Using existing data.
1. Clone [this repository](https://github.com/paramsiddharth/machine-learning-demo).
2. Create a Python virtual environment or use your existing Python installation. Use `pip` to install
   `pandas` and `sklearn`
   ```bash
   pip install pandas sklearn
   ```
3. Execute `generate.py`.
   ```bash
   python generate.py
   ```
   This will generate a file named `data.csv` in the current directory. Examine it. It will contain
   pairs of integers and their sums.
4. Execute `model.py`.
   ```bash
   python model.py
   ```
   This will train and generate a model using Scikit-Learn, using `data.csv` for training the model,
   and export the model as `model.bin`.  
   You can't examine `model.bin` directly, but make sure it exists before proceeding.
5. Execute `predict.py`.
   ```bash
   python predict.py
   ```
   This will load the model into memory and interactively allow you to add two numbers using the
   knowledge developed by the model.
   ```
   Enter x and y: 2 3
   2 + 3 = 5
   Enter x and y: 9 -1
   9 + -1 = 8
   Enter x and y: 0 42
   0 + 42 = 42
   ```

In the above exercise, you created a simple linear regression model using Pandas and Scikit-Learn
in Python and used it to predict the sum of 2 numbers.

# Made with ❤ by [Param](http://www.paramsid.com).
